BACKGROUND: Coronavirus disease-19 (COVID-19) infection causes persistent health
problems such as breathlessness, chest pain and fatigue, and therapies for the 
prevention and early treatment of post-COVID-19 syndromes are needed. 
Accordingly, we are investigating the effect of a resistance exercise 
intervention on exercise capacity and health status following COVID-19 
infection.
METHODS: A two-arm randomised, controlled clinical trial including 220 adults 
with a diagnosis of COVID-19 in the preceding 6 months. Participants will be 
classified according to clinical presentation: Group A, not hospitalised due to 
COVID but persisting symptoms for at least 4 weeks leading to medical review; 
Group B, discharged after an admission for COVID and with persistent symptoms 
for at least 4 weeks; or Group C, convalescing in hospital after an admission 
for COVID. Participants will be randomised to usual care or usual care plus a 
personalised and pragmatic resistance exercise intervention for 12 weeks. The 
primary outcome is the incremental shuttle walks test (ISWT) 3 months after 
randomisation with secondary outcomes including spirometry, grip strength, short 
performance physical battery (SPPB), frailty status, contacts with healthcare 
professionals, hospitalisation and questionnaires assessing health-related 
quality of life, physical activity, fatigue and dyspnoea.
DISCUSSION: Ethical approval has been granted by the National Health Service 
(NHS) West of Scotland Research Ethics Committee (REC) (reference: GN20CA537) 
and recruitment is ongoing. Trial findings will be disseminated through patient 
and public forums, scientific conferences and journals.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicialTrials.gov NCT04900961 . Prospectively registered 
on 25 May 2021.
